TO FIND AND CAPTURE TWO GUNMEN
RESPONSIBLE FOR THE WORST
TERRORIST ATTACK IN FRANCE IN
DECADES.
GOOD EVENING, I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
ALSO AHEAD THIS THURSDAY, A LOOK
AT WHAT'S BEHIND THE ALIENATION
AND RADICALIZATION OF SOME
MUSLIM YOUTH IN EUROPEAN
COUNTRIES.
If>>ill: PLUS, AVA DUVERNAY,
THE GOLDEN-GLOBE NOMINATED
DIRECTOR OF "SELMA," ON HER
EFFORT TO BRING THE CIVIL RIGHTS
MOVEMENT TO THE SCREEN.
>> THIS IS ART.
THIS IS A MOVIE.
THIS IS A FILM.
I'M NOT A HISTORIAN, I'M NOT A
DOCUMENTARIAN, I AM AN ARTIST
WHO EXPLORED HISTORY AND WHAT I
FOUND-- THE QUESTIONS THAT I
HAVE, THE IDEAS THAT I HAVE
ABOUT HISTORY, I'VE PUT INTO
THIS PROJECT THAT I'VE MADE.
>> Woodruff: AND, ECONOMISTS
SUGGEST MORE SELF-RESTRAINT AS A
CHILD LEADS TO BETTER ECONOMIC
OUTCOMES LATER IN LIFE.
HOW SOME SCHOOLS ARE TEACHING
CHARACTER TO INCREASE THE ODDS
OF SUCCESS.
>> Woodruff: THOSE ARE SOME OF
THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Ifill: THE PEOPLE OF FRANCE
SPENT THE DAY ON EDGE, MOURNING
THE VICTIMS OF A MASS SHOOTING
IN PARIS, AND TRACKING THE
MANHUNT FOR TWO ATTACKERS.
U.S. OFFICIALS SAID THEY WERE ON
A NO-FLY LIST FOR TERROR
SUSPECTS, AND FRENCH POLICE
QUESTIONED AT LEAST 90 PEOPLE,
DETAINED NINE, AND EXPANDED
THEIR SWEEP OUTSIDE THE CAPITAL.
HARI SREENIVASAN BEGINS OUR
COVERAGE.
>> Sreenivasan: SQUADS OF POLICE
WITH HELMETS AND SHIELDS
FOLLOWED ARMORED VEHICLES INTO
AN AREA NORTHEAST OF PARIS BY
THIS AFTERNOON.
THEY SHIFTED THEIR SEARCH AFTER
TWO MEN RESEMBLING THE SUSPECTS
ROBBED THIS GAS STATION IN
VILLERS COTTERETS, A LITTLE OVER
40 MILES FROM THE FRENCH
CAPITAL.
IN SHORTRDER O, HELICOPTERS
BEGAN TO BUZZ THE REGION,
SECURITY FORCES ENTERED NEARBY
WOODLAND VILLAGESND C AARRIED
OUT HOUSE-TO-HOUSE SEARCHES, ON
REPORTS THE GUNMEN MIGHT HAVE
HOLED UP THERE.
IN PARIS, FRENCH PRIME MINISTER
MANUEL VALLS SOUGHT TO CALM
PUBLIC FEARS.
>> ( translated ): WE WANT TO
TELL THE FRENCH PEOPLE ALL THAT
WE ARE VERY MOBILIZED.
WE WANT TO SALUTE THE FACT THAT
THE FRENCH GATHERED AND WERE
UNITED YESTERDAY AND TODAY, AND
WILL BE THIS WEEKEND WITHOUT A
DOUBT, AND WE WANT TO TELL OUR
WILL TO FIGHT TO DEFEND OUR
LIBERTIES, OUR DEMOCRACY AND OUR
TOLERANCE.
>> Sreenivasan: THE OBJECTS OF
THE MANHUNT ARE BROTHERS
IN THEIR THIRTIES.
THE YOUNGER, CHERIF KOUACHI, HAD
BEEN SENTENCED TO 18 MONTHS IN
PRISON IN 2008 FOR TRYING TO
JOIN A MILITANT ISLAMIST GROUP
FIGHTING IN IRAQ.
LESS IS KNOWN OF THE OLDER
BROTHER, SAID KOUACHI, BUT THE
PRIME MINISTER SAID BOTH HAD
BEEN KNOWN TO INTELLIGENCE
SERVICES BEFORE YESTERDAY.
>> AS SOON AS WE KNEW THE
IDENTITIES, THE SAFE HAVENS WERE
UNDER SURVEILLANCE.
NINE PERSONS ARE CURRENTLY IN
CUSTODY.
>> Reporter: A THIRD SUSPECT,
18-YEAR OLD MOURAD HAMYD, TURNED
HIMSELF INTO POLICE LAST NIGHT,
AFTER LEARNING HIS NAME WAS
LINKED TO THE ATTACKS.
FRIENDS SAID HE'D BEEN IN SCHOOL
AT THE TIME OF THE SHOOTINGS.
ON THIS NATIONAL DAY OF
MOURNING, THE BELLS OF NOTRE
DAME TOLLED, AND FRENCH
PRESIDENT FRANCOIS HOLLANDE LED
A MOMENT OF SILENCE FOR THE 12
PEOPLE KILLED AT "CHARLIE
HEBDO."
THE SATIRICAL WEEKLY HAD A
HISTORY OF LAMPOONING ISLAM AND
OTHER RELIGIONS, IN COMMENTARY
AND CARTOONS.
TODAY, PEOPLE LAID FLOWERS AND
LIT CANDLES AT THE PUBLICATION'E
KILLINGS.
>> ( translated ): IT'S A SHAME
THAT BECAUSE OF HUMOR, THAT WE
CONDEMN HUMOR AND THAT WE'VE
GONE SO FAR TO KILL PEOPLE FOR
CARTOONS, FOR IDEAS.
IT'S SAD, IT'S A BIT DEVASTATING
THAT TODAY IN PARIS WE'VE GOT TO
THIS POINT, FOR IDEAS AND FOR
HUMOR.
>> Sreenivasan: ALL ACROSS THE
CITY, POLICE PRESENCE WAS HEAVY
THIS DAY, BUT TENSIONS SPIKED
WITH THE FATAL SHOOTING OF A
POLICEWOMAN IN A SOUTHERN SUBURB
OFARI PS.
IT REMAINED UNCLEAR IF THE
INCIDENT HAD ANY CONNECTION TO
YESTERDAY'S KILLINGS.
ELSEWHERE, IN SHOWS OF
SOLIDARITY, SOME EUROPEAN
NEWSPAPERS RE-PUBLISHED SOME OF
"CHARLIE HEBDO'S" CARTOONS.
AND IN PROTESTS AROUND THE WORLD
AND ONLINE, PEOPLE EVYWHEERRE
JOINED IN DECLARATIO SAYNSING,
"JE SUIS CHARLIE," OR "I AM
CHARLIE."
THIS EVENING IN PARIS, IN A
DRAMATIC DISPLAY, THE EIFFEL
TOWER WENT BLACK IN A FURTHER
DEMONSTRATION OF NATIONAL
SORROW.
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN IN NEW YORK
FOR THE PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Ifill: A SHORT TIME AGO I
SPOKE TO MARK AUSTIN OF
INDEPENDENT TELEVISION NEWS FROM
PARIS.
MARK AUSTIN, THANK YOU SO MUCH
FOR JOINING US.
I KNOW IT'S LATE THERE.
WHAT CAN YOU TELL US TONIGHT
ABOUT THE LATEST IN THE SCOPE
AND SUCCESS IF ANY OF THIS
MANHUNT?
>> NO GREAT SUCCESS YET BUT IT'S
ON A MASSIVE SCALE.
I MEAN HUNDREDS OF SPECIAL
FORCES, HUNDREDS OF ARMED POLICE
CONDUCTING A HUNT ABOUT 50 OR
60 MILES NORTHEAST OF PARIS IN
NORTHERN FRANCE IN A HEAVILY
WOODED AREA OF ABOUT SEVERAL
THOUSAND ACRES.
SO THEY HAVE A MASSIVE JOB, BUT
IT'S THOUGHT THERE THE TWO
BROTHERS ARE HIDING OUT AND IT'S
THOUGHT THE POLICE AND SPECIAL
FORCES ARE TONIGHT CLOSING IN,
OR AT LEAST THAT'S THE HOPE OF
MANY PEOPLE HERE IN FRANCE.
OF COURSE, WITH DARKNESS, THE
INITIATIVE COULD PASS TO THE
SPECIAL FORCES WITH THEIR
INFRARED EQUIPMENT, AND IT'S
BELIEVED THEY MAY BE CLOSING IN
TONIGHT.
>> Ifill: CAN YOU GIVE US
SIGNS OF HOW PEOPLE ARE REACTING
TO THIS?
WE KNOW THE SUSPECTS ARE ON THE
LOOSE.
WE KNOW A THIRD SUSPECT HAS
TURNED HIMSELF IN BUT SAID HE
WASN'T INVOLVED.
ARE PEOPLE STILL ON EDGE?
>> PEOPLE ARE VERY MUCH ON EDGE
HERE IN PARIS.
THERE WAS A FEELING YESTERDAY
THIS IS A SPECIFICALLY TARGETED
ATTACK ON THIS MAGAZINE BEHIND
ME HERE, BUT TODAY WE'VE HAD
MORE ATTACKS.
THESE TWO BROTHERS ARE STILL ON
THE LOOSE, AND I THINK THERE IS
A GREAT SENSE OF FEAR HERE AND
THE REAL HOPE THAT THESE TWO MEN
ARE CAUGHT.
IT'S ALSO VERY SOMBER HERE, I
HAVE TO TELL YOU.
I MEAN, WE HAVE BEEN HERE ALL
DAY JUST BY THIS SHRINE HERE AND
HUNDREDS, THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE
HAVE COME HERE DURING THE DAY
JUST TO LAY FLOWERS, LIGHT
CANDLES.
IT'S BEEN A VERY MOVING
EXPERIENCE.
BUT A GREAT SADNESS BUT ALSO IT
IS STILL VERY MUCH A COUNTRY ON
EDGE TONIGHT.
>> IS THERE MUCH TENSION IN
PARTICULAR IN THE MUSLIM
COMMUNITY?
>> IT'S INTERESTING.
I TALK ABOUT PEOPLE COMING TO
THIS SHRINE TODAY.
THERE WAS A VISIT BY A NUMBER OF
MUSLIM LEADERS TODAY WHO LAID
THEIR OWN FLOWERS AND SAID THEIR
OWN PRAYERS BECAUSE THEY BELIEVE
THAT THIS WAS AN ATTACK THAT WAS
NOT IN THEIR NAME AND NOT IN
ISLAM'S NAME.
I SPENT TIME TODAY IN THE MUSLIM
QUARTER HERE AND THAT IS A
BELIEF SHARED BY THOUSANDS OF
MUSLIMS HERE.
WE SPOKE TO A NUMBER OF PEOPLE,
YOUNG STUDENTS WHO SAY THIS IS
NOT IN THEIR NAME AND THEY WANT
NOTHING TO DO WITH IT AND THEY
WANT UNITY AND TOGETHERNESS.
THERE ARE SOME 6 MILLION MUSLIMS
IN FRANCE AND THEY HAVE TO GET
ON.
I THINK THERE'S A REAL SENSE
HERE, THE FABRIC OF THIS COUNTRY
IS BEING TESTED LIKE SELDOM
BEFORE, AND THERE ARE CALLS
TONIGHT FOR UNITY AND
TOGETHERNESS.
>> Ifill: MARK AUSTIN, WE CAN
ONLY HOPE THAT THAT ACTUALLY
HOLDS.
FROM INDEPENDENT TELEVISION
NEWS, THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> Ifill: WE'LL TALK MORE ABOUT
RADICALIZATION OF, AND ATTITUDES
TOWARD MUSLIMS IN FRANCE, AFTER
THE NEWS SUMMARY.
>> Woodruff: HERE IN THE U.S.,
STOCK MARKETS SOARED FOR A
SECOND DAY ON HOPES FOR AN
UPBEAT JOBS REPORT TOMORROW, AND
POSSIBLE ECONOMIC STIMULUS
ACTION IN EUROPE.
THE BUYING BINGE MORE THAN MADE
UP LOSSES FROM EARLIER IN THE
WEEK.
IN ALL, THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL
AVERAGE GAINED 323 POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 17,908; THE NASDAQ ROSE
85 POINTS TO CLOSE AT 4,736; AND
THE S&P 500 ADDED 36 TO FINISH
AT 2,062.
>> Ifill: RECORD-BREAKING COLD
HARDENED A DEEP FREEZE THAT
STRETCHED TO DAY FROM THE
MIDWEST TO NEW ENGLAND.
WIND CHILLS DIPPED BELOW ZERO
AGAIN, PROMPTING SCHOOLS TO PUSH
BACK CLASSES OR CANCEL THEM FOR
A SECOND DAY IN A ROW.
BUT COMMUTERS HAD LITTLE CHOICE
BUT TO BRAVE THE ELEMENTS, AS
THE COLD CAUSED BREAKDOWNS IN
PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION.
>> HOPEFULLY SUMMER COMES
SOONER, LIKE REAL SOON, YOU
KNOW?
I CAN'T TAKE THIS ANYMORE, MAN.
DO YOU SEE MY EYES ARE RUNNING,
MY NOSE IS RUNNING, IS IT
COMFORTABLE?
I DON'T THINK SO.
I'M ORIGINALLY FROM THE
CARIBBEAN.
SO I'M FREEZING.
I DON'T KNOW WHAT I'M GOI TONG
DO TO CHANGE THIS.
( LAUGHS )
BUT IT'S VERY COLD, AND I GOT TO
GO TO WORK SO THAT'S WHY I'M OUT
HERE.
>> Ifill: AND THERE IS ANOTHER
SO-CALLED ALBERTA CLIPPER COMING
BEHIND THIS ONE.
MINNESOTA AND THE DAKOTAS COULD
FACE WIND GUSTS OF UP TO 50-
MILES-AN-HOUR.
>> Woodruff: OVERSEAS, FRIGID
TEMPERATURES ALSO GRIPPED THE
MIDDLE EAST AGAIN, PROMPTING
APPEALS TO HELP SYRIAN REFUGEES.
BLIZZARDS, RAIN AND HIGH WINDS
HAVE BUFFETED CAMPS IN JORDAN
AND LEBANON, WHERE HUNDREDS OF
THOUSANDS HAVE FLED THE FIGHTING
IN SYRIA.
TODAY, ACTIVISTS WARNED
CONDITIONS ARE CATASTROPHIC.
BUT THE STORM SILENCED THE GUNS
INSIDE SYRIA, WITH NO REPORTED
DEATHS FOR THE FIRST TIME IN
THREE YEARS.
>> Ifill: THERE WAS NO LET-UP IN
THE VIOLENCE ACROSS IRAQ, WHERE
23 PEOPLE DIED IN SUICIDE
ATTACKS.
THE FIRST BOMBER RAMMED HIS CAR
INTO A CHECKPOINT H
BAGHDAD, KILLING THREE POLICE
OFFICERS AND FOUR CIVILIANS.
A SECOND ATTACKER TARGETED
POLICE AND SHIITE MILITIAMEN IN
SAMARRA, KILLING EIGHT MORE
PEOPLE.
LATER, A BOMBING IN BAGHDAD
CLAIMED ANOTHER EIGHT LIVES.
>> Woodruff: EGYPT'S ARMY IS
INFLUX OF GUNS AND MILITANTS
ACROSS ITS BORDER WITH GAZA.
TODAY, THE MILITARY SAID TODAY
IT'S DOUBLING A BUFFER ZONE.
THE DECISION MEANS MORE THAN
1200 HOMES WILL HAVE TO BE
DESTROYED IN ONE OF EGYPT'S
POOREST DISTRICTS.
>> Ifill: ROUGH SEAS BLOCKED
EFFORTS TODAY TO RECOVER THE
BLACK BOX RECORDERS FROM THE
AIR-ASIA PLANE THAT CRASHED OFF
INDONESIA.
SHAKY UNDERWATER VIDEO SHOWED
DIVERS EXAMINING THE TAIL
SECTION AFTER IT WAS LOCATED
YESTERDAY.
THE RECORDERS ARE BELIEVED TO BE
IN THAT WRECKAGE.
CREWS MAY TRY RAISING IT TO THE
SURFACE TOMORROW.
>> Woodruff: THE U.S. GOVERNMENT
HAS FINED THE HONDA MOTOR
COMPANY A RECORD $70 MILLION FOR
FAILING TO REPORT COMPLAINTS OF
DEATHS AND INJURIES.
THE NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC
SAFETY ADMINISTRATION IMPOSED
THE PENALTY TODAY.
HONDA HAS ACKNOWLEDGED THAT IT
NEVER REPORTED MORE THAN 1,700
COMPLAINTS ON SAFETY ISSUES
GOING BACK TO 2003.
IT ALSO WITHHELD WARRANTY
CLAIMS.
>> Ifill: BACK IN THIS COUNTRY,
ONE OF THE SENATE'S LEADING
LIBERALS CALIFORNIA DEMOCRAT
BARBARA BOXER ANNOUNCED TODAY
SHE WILL NOT SEEK RE-ELECTION IN
2016.
THE FOUR-TERM SENATOR ISSUED HER
STATEMENT IN AN ONLINE VIDEO,
ANSWERING QUESTIONS POSED BY HER
GRANDSON.
>> I AM NEVER GOING TO RETIRE.
THE WORK IS TOO IMPORTANT.
BUT I WILL NOT BE RUNNING FOR
THE SENATE IN 2016.
I'M GOING TO CONTINUE WORKING ON
THE ISSUES I LOVE.
I'LL HAVE MORE TIME TO HELP
OTHER PEOPLE THROUGH MY PACK FOR
CHANGE COMMUNITY.
I HAVE TO MAKE SURE THE SENATE
SEAT STAYS PROGRESSIVE THAT IS
SO CRITICAL, AND I WANT TO HELP
OUR DEMOCRATIC CANDIDATE FOR
PRESIDENT MAKE HISTORY.
>> Ifill: BOXER WAS ELECTED TO
THE HOUSE IN 1982, AND TO THE
SENATE, TEN YEARS LATER.
SHE'S BEEN A STAUNCH ADVOCATE OF
ABORTION RIGHTS AND
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION.
SHE IS 74-YEARS-OLD, BUT SAYS
AGE WAS NOT A FACTOR IN HER
DECISION.
>> Woodruff: AND, POLICE IN
COLORADO SPRINGS, COLORADO,
APPEALED TODAY FOR TIPS ON A
BOMBING THIS WEEK NEAR AN OFFICE
OF THE N.A.A.C.P.
JOINED IN THE APPEAL.
THE BOMBING CAUSED ONLY MINOR
DAMAGE AND NO INJURIES.
THE F.B.I. IS INVESTIGATING, BUT
SAYS IT'S TOO SOON TO TELL
WHETHER THE N.A.A.C.P. WAS THE
TARGET.
>> Woodruff: STILL TO COME ON
THE NEWSHOUR.
WHAT'S DRIVING THE RISE OF ANTI-
MUSLIM SENTIMENT IN FRANCE.
WHY ARE MORE WESTERNIZED MUSLIMS
TURNING TOWARDS RADICAL
INTERPRETATIONS OF ISLAM.
THE DIRECTOR OF THE FILM "SELMA"
ON HER TAKE OF A PIVOTAL TIME
IN THE CIVIL RIGHTS MOVEMENT.
TEACHING SELF-RESTRAINT TO EVEN
THE MOST OUT-OF-CONTROL
STUDENTS.
AND THE THIN LINE WALKED BY
POLITICAL AND CULTURAL
CARTOONISTS AND SATIRISTS.
>> Ifill: WE RETURN NOW TO
FRANCE, YESTERDAY'S ATTACKS,
AMONG OTHER THINGS, PUT A
SPOTLIGHT ON THE GROWING
TENSIONS BETWEEN THE COUNTRY'S
MUSLIM AND IMMIGRANT COMMUNITY
AND A LARGE PORTION OF FRENCH
SOCIETY.
NEWSHOUR'S MEGAN THOMPSON GOT A
FIRSTHAND ACCOUNT OF THAT DIVIDE
ON A RECENT REPORTING TRIP TO
THE SOUTHERN THE CITY OF
MARSEILLES.
>> THIS CITY OF MORE THAN
850,000 IS FRANCE'S SECOND
LARGEST AND ONE OF IT'S MOST
DIVERSE.
ABOUT 500 MILES SOUTHEAST OF
PARIS AND ON THE MED TRAINSON,
MARSEILLES IS HOME TO TENS OF
THOUSANDS OF IMMIGRANTS
THROUGHOUT EUROPE AND MORE
RECENTLY FROM NORTH AFRICA.
BY SOME ESTIMATES, THE CITY IS
NOW 30 TO 40% MUSLIM, ONE OF THE
HIGHEST CONCENTRATNS OIOF
MUSLIMS ANYWHERE IN THIS
OVERWHELMINGLY CATHOLIC COUNTRY.
EVEN BEFORE YESTERDAY'S ATTACK
AND TWO OTHER RECENT ATTACKS BY
MUSLIM MEN, TENSIONS BETWEEN
MUSLIMS AND NON-MUSLIMS HAD BEEN
RAISING IN MARSEILLES.
>> THIS IS COMPLICATED WITH THE
ARRIVAL OF THE FOREIGNERS WHO
CHANGED EVERYTHING IN THE TOWN
OF MARSEILLES.
>> THIS PHOTOGRAPHER LIVED IN
MARSEILLES HIS ENTIRE LIFE AND
FELT THINGS CHANGE OVER THE
YEARS.
>> BEFORE, EVERYONE KNEW EACH
OTHER.
EVEN THE FIRST IMMIGRANTS IN
MARSEILLES, THE ITALIANS,
SPANISH, ALL THAT.
IT ALL WORKED FINE PERHAPS
BECAUSE IT WAS THE SAME
RELIGION.
WHAT CAME AFTER IS MORE
COMPLICATED, LESS INTEGRAD.TE
>> Reporter: HE SAID THAT HAS
GIVEN RISE TO UNEASINESS.
DIFFICULT ENCOUNTERS ARE ALREADY
OCCURRING.
>> THE OLD MARSEILLES ARE
ANNOYED TO HAVE PEOPLE WHO COME
AND BHEROT THEM IN THEIR
HOMETOWN BECAUSE WE HAVE OUR
WAYS AND THE NEW ARRIVALS FEEL
NOT WELL ACCEPTED AND YOU FEEL
THEIR HATRED INCREASING.
YOU CAN SEE IT IN THE BUSES.
THERE ARE FIGHTS, AND THAT
DIDN'T HAPPEN BEFORE.
>> Reporter: WE ASKED IF HE
BELIEVED NEW IMGRANTS ARE TO
BLAME?
>> I'M ABSOLUTELY CONVINCED THE
MAIN PROBLEMS COME FROM THIS.
>> Reporter: THERE ARE A LOT
OF VERBAL INSULTS.
THE STARES, PEOPLE IN THE
STREETS LOOKING AT ME.
NATALIE WAS BORN IN FRANCE, THE
DAUGHTER OF AN ALGERIAN
IMMIGRANT.
SHE CONVERTED TO ISLAM IN HER
EARLY TWEENTS AND IS MARRIED TO
AN IMAM.
THE MOTHER OF SEVEN SAYS ONCE OR
TWICE A MONTH SHE IS RIDICULED
BECAUSE SHE WEARS A SCARF.
SHE SAYS SHE'S BEEN EXCLUDED
FROM HER CHILDREN'S FIELD TRIPS
AND IN 2012 NEARLY HAD A
CONFRONTATION IN A STORE.
>> A WOMAN TORE INTO ME, REALLY
INSULTED ME.
SHE SAID YOU'VE REJECTED OUR
ORIGIN BECAUSE SHE KNEW I'M
FRENCH BECAUSE I TOLD HER.
SHE INSULTED ME WITH ALL THESE
NAMES.
SHE ALMOST HIT ME.
>> Reporter: SHE SAID SHE
REPORTED THE INCIDENT TO POLICE
BUT NOTHING HAPPENED.
ACCORDING TO ONE SURVEY TAKEN
LAST SPRING, ABOUT A QUARTER OF
THE FRENCH POPULATION HAD AN
UNFAVORABLE VIEW OF MUSLIMS
WHICH IS ACTUALLY MUCH LOWER
THAN OTHER EUROPEAN COUNTRIES.
DURING OUR VISIT TO MARSEILLES
LAST MONTH, MANY MUSLIMS WE
SPOKE TO TOLD US ABOUT WHAT THEY
SAY IS WIDESPREAD JOB
DISCRIMINATION, UNFAIR MEDIA
PORTRAYALS OF ALL MUSLIMS AS
TERRORISTS AND A PATTERN OF MOS
TILE REMARKS.
>> IT DOESN'T BOTHER ME.
I IGNORE THEM.
BUT WHEN YOU HAVE YOUR KIDS WITH
YOU AND SOMEONE INSULTS YOU,
IT'S DEGRADING.
FRANKLY, WHEN IT HAPPENS ON THE
STREET, IT'S HARD TO JUSTIFY IT
TO THE KIDS.
THEY DON'T UNDERSTAND.
MY SON, HE SAYS, WHEN I'M BIG, I
AM GOING TO FIGHT THESE PEOPLE
IF THEY TALK TO YOU THAT WAY.
I SAY YOU CAN'T RESPOND TO
AGGRESSION WITH AGGRESSION.
>> Reporter: WHY DO YOU THINK
PEOPLE TREAT YOU THIS WAY?
>> I REALLY -- I THINK IT'S FEAR
OF THE OTHER AND ALSO A LACK OF
UNDERSTANDING OF OUR RELIGION.
ALSO I THINK THAT MUSLIMS DON'T
MAKE ENOUGH EFFORT TO REACH OUT
AND EXPLAIN THE FUNDAMENTALS OF
OUR RELIGION, THAT THERE IS A
LOT OF RESPECT FOR OTHERS.
>> Reporter: WE ALSO HEARD
STORIES ABOUT A RIGHT WING
POLITICIAN FROM MARSEILLES WHOSE
ACTIONS OFFENDED SOME MEMBERS OF
THE MUSLIM COMMUNITY.
HE ONCE INTERRUPTED A MUSLIM
WEDDING BECAUSE THE BRIDE WAS
WEARING A VEIL COVERING HER
FACE, A VIOLATION OF FRENCH LAW.
HE EXPLAINED IT TO US THIS WAY.
>> WE HAVE AN IDENTITY AND WE
ALSO HAVE LAWS.
SO FRENCH LAW FORBIDS ANYONE TO
BE ENTIRELY VEILED.
SO I HAVE ONLY APPLIED THE LAW.
THERE IS NO ISLAM PHOBIC, RACIST
OF EXTREMIST MOTIVATION ON MY
END.
>> Reporter: LAST SEPTEMBER,
JAVIER WAS ELECTED TO THE FRENCH
SENATE, THE FIRST TIME IN
HISTORY WHEN ANYONE FROM THE FAR
RIGHT FRONT PARTY HAS BEEN
ELECTED TO THE BODY.
THE NATIONAL FRONT GAINED GROUND
IN FRANCE AS WORRIES OF ECONOMY
AND SECURITY HAVE GROWN.
>> SO I AM SAYING TO THE FRENCH
MUSLIMS WHO WANT TO LIVE THEIR
ISLAM THAT THEY HAVE THE RIGHT
TO DO SO, OF COURSE.
OUR COUNTRY, SECULARISM, ALLOWS
THEM TO LIVE THEIR ISLAM.
>> Reporter: BUT JAVIER ALSO
INSISTS DESPITE FRANCE'S
SEPARATION OF CHURCH AND STATE,
THE NATION'S LONG CHRISTIAN
TRADITIONS MUST BE RESPECTED.
>> I WOULD LIKE TO REMIND PEOPLE
THAT FRANCE IS A CHRISTIAN
COUNTRY, AN IDENTITY, A CULTURE.
SO I'M TELLING THE FRENCH
MUSLIMS THAT DON'T FORGET THAT
HERE IT IS FRENCH SOIL AND
FRANCE AS IS DONE AROUND THE
WORLD, WE ALSO HAVE TO RESPECT
RELIGIONS, RITUALS, CUSTOMS AND
CODES.
SO THERE IS ISLAM AND ISLAMISM
WHICH IS GROWING.
>> Reporter: HE IS CRITICAL OF
NATIONAL LEADERS LIKE THE FRENCH
PRESIDENT FOR NOT FULLY
APPRECIATING THE THREAT HE SAYS
SOME FRENCH MUSLIMS PRESENT.
JUST YESTERDAY FOLLOWING THE
MASS SHOOTING, THE LEADER OF THE
NATIONAL FRONT PARTY SAYS TIME
IS UP FOR DENIAL AND HYPOCRISY.
THE ABSOLUTE REJECTION OF
ISLAMIC FUNDAMENTALISM MUST BE
PROCLAIMED LOUDLY AND CLEARLY.
>> MASSIVE IMMIGRATION IS
CAUSING ISLAMIZATION.
WE CAN SEE THERE ARE SOME
EXTREMIST ELEMENTS AT THE HEART.
THEY ARE VERY ACTIVE.
THE FRENCH AUTHORITIES ARE
FROZEN BECAUSE THEY FEAR BEING
LABELED ISLAMAPHOBIC.
>> Reporter: OFFICIALS
ESTIMATE 1,000 MUSLIMS LEFT TO
JOIN JIHAD.
>> WE NEED TO TAKE MEASURES TO
MATCH THE DANGER.
>> Reporter: THERE'S STILL
ANOTHER ASPECT TO ALL OFFTHIS.
MANY BELIEVE RELATIONS BETWEEN
CHRISTIANS AND MUSLIMS ARE
FURTHER STRAINED BECAUSE MANY
MUSLIMS ARE POOR AND DURING
DIFFICULT TIMES THAT LEADS TO
RESENTMENT ABOUT PROVIDING FOR
IN FRANCE IS NOW ABOUT 10%.
>> THE ECONOMIC SITUATION IS
EXREERL SERIOUS.
WE WELCOME IMMIGRANTS WHO HAVE
NOTHING AND MANY HAVE NO SKILLS.
THEY BECOME THE STATE'S
PONSABILITY.
WE WILL HAVE TO HOUSE THEM,
PROVIDE HEALTHCARE, ASSIST THEM
AT ALL LEVELS.
>> Reporter: SO WHAT DOES THE
FUTURE HOLD FOR RELATIONS
BETWEEN MUSLIMS AND CHRISTIANS
IN MARSEILLES?
THERE SEEMS TO BE LITTLE
OPTIMISM.
>> I THINK THAT WE'LL NEED A FEW
GENERATIONS TO GET USED TO IT.
ME, I WON'T BE HERE.
BUT MY KIDS, I THINK THEY WILL
BE EXPERIENCING SOME TOUGH
MOMENTS.
>> IT'S GETTING WORSE AND WORSE
AND, FRANKLY, I DON'T THINK IT'S
GOING TO GET BETTER.
>> Reporter: FOR THE
"NewsHour", I'M MEGAN THOMPSON
REPORTING FROM MARSEILLES,
FRANCE.
>> Woodruff: "THE NEWS YORK
TIMES" HAS JUST REPORTED THAT
ONE OF THE BROTHERS BEING HUNTED
FOR THE PARIS ATTACK RECEIVED
TRAINING AT AN AL QAEDA TRAINING
CAMP IN YEMEN, ACCORDING TO A
SENIOR AMERICAN OFFICIAL.
THE BROTHERS, WHO WERE BORN AND
RAISED IN FRANCE HAD A SECULAR
MUSLIM UPBRINGING BEFORE THEIR
APPARENT RADICALIZATION.
THERE HAVE, OF COURSE, BEEN
OTHER ATTACKS ON THE CONTINENT
AND THOUSANDS OF EUROPEAN MUSLIM
EXTREMISTS HAVE TRAVELED TO IRAQ
AND SYRIA TO FIGHT.
TO FIND OUT MORE ABOUT WHAT'S
LEADING TO THE RADICALIZATION OF
MANY OF THESE YOUNG MEN, I SPOKE
EARLIER TO PETER NEUMANN,
DIRECTOR OF THE INTERNATIONAL
CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF
RADICALIZATION AT KING'S
COLLEGE.
PETER NEUMANN, THANK YOU FOR
TALKING WITH US.
FIRST OF ALL, WHAT DO YOU THINK
IS MOST IMPORTANT FOR US TO KNOW
ABOUT THIS ATTACK, ABOUT THESE
TWO BROTHERS IN TERMS OF
UNDERSTANDING WHAT WENT INTO
THIS, WHAT WAS BEHIND IT?
>> I THINK THE TWO BROTHERS ARE
INTERESTING BECAUSE THEY HAVE A
LOCK HISTORY OF EXTREMISM.
AT LEAST ONE HAS BEEN ACTIVE IN
JIHADIST CIRCLES FOR OVER TEN
YEARS, SO THESE WERE NOT
INEXPERIENCED PEOPLE.
THESE WERE NOT PEOPLE WHO WERE
THE TYPICAL LONE WOLVES WHO WERE
RADICALIZED OVER THE INTERNET.
THESE WERE EXPERIENCED
OPERATORS.
THE SECOND IMPORTANT THING IS
THE CHANGE OF MODUS OPERANDI
THAT WE ARE WITNESSING.
REALLY, OVER THE PAST TEN OR 15
YEARS, WE HAVE BEEN LUCKY
BECAUSE THE JIHADISTS HAVE BEEN
TRYING TO EMULATE 9/11,
COMPLICATED, BIG ATTACKS.
NOW THEY ARE TRYING TO DO LESS
COMPLICATED ATTACKS WHICH THEY
REALIZE CAN INFLICT AS MUCH
HORROR AND TERROR AND
POLARIZATION ON SOCIETY BUT
WHICH ARE MUCH MORE DIFFICULT TO
DETECT.
I WOULD EXPECT TO SEE MORE
THINGS LIKE THAT TO HAPPEN IN
2015.
>> Woodruff: WHY WOULD YOU SAY
SO MANY YOUNG MUSLIMS IN EUROPE
ARE BECOMING RADICALIZED?
>> I THINK THE CAUSE IS
ULTIMATELY A CONFLICT OF
IDENTITY.
IT IS ABOUT SECOND OR
THIRD-GENERATION DESENDENTS OF
MUSLIM IMMIGRANTS NO LONGER
FEELING THAT HOME IN THEIR
PARENTS OR GRANDPARENTS'
CULTURE, AT THE SAME TIME NOT
BEING FULLY ACCEPTED INTO
EUROPEAN SOCIETIES, OFTEN HAVING
EXPERIENCES OF DISCRIMINATION.
THEY DO NOT FEEL THEY BELONG IN
FRANCE EVEN THOUGH THEY WERE
BORN IN FRANCE, WENT TO SCHOOL
IN FRANCE, HAVE FRENCH
PASSPORTS.
I THINK THAT IT IS IN THIS
REGARD THAT WE HAVE A LOT TO
LEARN FROM THE UNITED STATES OF
AMERICA WHICH IS MUCH MORE
WELCOMING AND MUCH MORE
EMBRACING IMMIGRANTS WHEREVER
THEY COME FROM AND WHOEVER THEY
ARE.
IN EUROPE, WE STILL HAVE A SENSE
THAT, YOU KNOW, IF YOU DON'T
LOOK EUROPEAN, IF YOUR NAMES ARE
NOT EUROPEAN, YOU'RE NOT PART OF
US, AND THAT CAUSES THAT
CONFLICT OF IDENTITY THAT MAKES
A LOT OF PEOPLE OPEN TO THE
SIMPLE MESSAGES FROM
RADICALIZERS AND RECRUITERS.
>> Woodruff: WE ALSO ARE AWARE
THAT THERE'S A GROWING BACKLASH
IN PARTS OF EUROPE INCLUDING
FRANCE AGAINST THE MUSLIM
POPULATION.
IS THERE AN UNDERSTANDING OF HOW
THAT MAY BE MAKING THE
RADICALIZATION OF THESE YOUNG
PEOPLE WORSE?
>> ABSOLUTELY.
AND I THINK IT'S A REALLY
DANGEROUS MOMENT FOR A LOT OF
WESTERN EUROPEAN COUNTRIES.
YOU HAVE A DIFFICULT ECONOMIC
SITUATION IN COUNTRIES LIKE
FRANCE, BUT ALSO OTHER
COUNTRIES.
YOU HAVE A STRENGTHENING FAR
RIGHT FRINGE.
IN FRANCE, FOR EXAMPLE,ETH NOT
EVEN A FRINGE.
IT IS NOW THE LARGEST PARTY IN
FRANCE, THE FRONT NATIONAL.
AND THESE PEOPLE ARE TRYING TO
POLITICALLY EXPLOIT THIS TRAGEDY
TO GAIN STRENGTH, AND YOU CAN
ALMOST FORESEE A SITUATION IN
WHICH BOTH EXTREMES ARE ALMOST
DRAWING STRENGTH FROM EACH OTHER
AND POLERRIZING SOCIETY --
POLARIZING SOCIETY TO THE EXTENT
SOME EUROPEAN COUNTRIES COULD BE
UNGOVERNABLE.
>> Woodruff: WHAT SHOULD
SECURITY FORCES BE DOING TO HEAD
OFF MOR MORE ATTACKS LIKE THIS ?
>> I THINK IT'S VERY IMPORTANT
TO, FIRST OF ALL, STOP PEOPLE
FROM TRAVELING TO SYRIA.
IN A LOT OF EUROPEAN COUNTRIES,
THAT'S STILL DIFFICULT FOR LEGAL
REASONS.
YOU SHOULD BE ABLE TO TAKE AWAY
PASSPORTS FROM PEOPLE WHO WANT
TO GO TO SYRIA.
IT IS ALSO IMPORTANT THAT
EUROPEAN COUNTRIES BECOME BETTER
AT EXCHANGING INFORMATION.
A LOT OF THE RETRAINEES ARE NOT
RETURNING DIRECTLY TO THEIR HOME
COUNTRIES, THEY'RE RETURNING TO
OTHER COMPANIES.
IT'S BETTER EVERYONE KNOWS ABOUT
EACH OTHER'S RETRAINEES.
MOST IMPORTANTLY IT'S ABOUT
PREVENTION.
IT IS ABOUT TRYING TO PREVENT
MORE PEOPLE FROM BECOMING
RADICALIZED IN THE FIRST PLACE.
A LOT OF COUNTRIES DO NOT HAVE
STRATEGIES IN PLACE, THEY DO NOT
KNOW WHAT THEY ARE DOING AND
THIS IS ABSOLUTELY URGENT NOW.
>> Woodruff: SO MUCH MORE TO
WORK ON THIS N THIS AREA.
PETER NEUMANN WITH KING'S
COLLEGE IN LONDON.
WE THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: AN EMOTIONAL AND
CONTROVERSIAL PERIOD OF AMERICAN
HISTORY HAS LED TO AN EMOTIONAL
AND CONTROVERSIAL RECEPTION FOR
AN ACCLAIMED NEW MOVIE.
WE GO BEHIND THE SCENES.
>> GIVE US THE VOTE!
WE'RE NOT ASKING, WE'RE
DEMANDING!!
>> GIVE US THE VOTE!
>> Ifill: TWO YEARS AFTER
"LINCOLN," AND ONE YEAR AFTER
SEMINAL ALABAMA CIVIL RIGHTS
PROTESTS THAT LED TO THE PASSAGE
OF THE 1965 VOTING RIGHTS ACT.
IT IS THE FIRST FEATURE FILM
EVER TO FOCUS ON MARTIN LUTHER
KING JR. AND THE LESS WELL-KNOWN
ACTIVISTS WHO FORCED THE
NATION'S HAND 50 YEARS AGO.
IN LIMITED RELEASE, IT HAS WON
FOUR GOLDEN GLOBE NOMINATIONS,
STANDING OVATIONS AND RAVE
REVIEWS.
IN NEW YORK AND IN SELMA ITSELF,
COMMUNITY LEADERS HAVE RAISED
HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS
TO ALLOW MIDDLE SCHOOL STUDENTS
TO SEE THE FILM FOR FREE.
IF YOU BELIEVE ALL ARE
CREATED EQUAL, COME TO SELMA.
JOIN US.
JOIN OUR MARCH AGAINST INJUSTICE
AND INHUMANITY.
>> Ifill: BUT "SELMA" HAS ALSO
SPARKED CONTROVERSY,
PARTICULARLY FOR ITS PORTRAYAL
OF PRESIDENT LYNDON JOHNSON'S
SOMETIMES PRICKLY RELATIONSHIP
WITH KING, WHO IS TREATED HERE
AS MORE TACTICIAN THAN
THEOLOGIAN.
>> WE NEED YOUR HELP.
>> DR. KI, THNGIS THING IS JUST
GOING TO HAVE TO WAIT.
>> IT CAN'T WAIT.
>> Ifill: FORMER JOHNSON AIDE
JOSEPH CALIFANO SAID NO ONE
SHOULD SEE THE FILM.
AND THE HEAD OF THE L.B.J.
PRESIDENTIAL LIBRARY SAID THE
PORTRAYAL "FLIES IN THE FACE OF
HISTORY."
MARK UPDEGROVE APPEARED ON CBS
NEWS' "FACE THE NATION."
>> YOU DON'T QUITE SEE HOW
PRODUCTIVE THAT PARTNERSHIP WAS
AND HOW IT CAME TO BEAR ON OUR
GETTING VOTING RIGHTS IN THIS
COUNTRY.
>> Ifill: THE BULK OF THE FILM,
HOWEVER, BRINGS TO LIFE THE
FORCE AND BRUTALITY OF THE
RESISTANCE TO THE MOVEMENT, AS
WELL AS THE HEROISM OF ACTIVISTS
LIKE NOW-CONGRESSMAN JOHN LEWIS,
WHO WAS SEVERELY INJURED ON
BLOODY SUNDAY, THE FIRST OF THE
THREE MARCHES ACROSS SELMA'S
EDMUND PETTIS BRIDGE.
THE FILM OPENS NATIONWIDE
TOMORROW IN ADVANCE OF THIS
WEEKEND'S GOLDEGLOBN E AWARDS.
I SAT DOWN WITH DUVERNAY
YESTERDAY IN NEW YORK.
AVA, THANK YOU FOR JOINING US.
>> THANK YOU FOR HAVING ME.
>> Ifill: THE FIRST TIME, MY
HEART WAS IN MY THROAT.
THE SECOND TIME I WAS LOCKING AT
ITS WITH HISTORICAL SCRUTINY
BECAUSE QUESTIONS HAVE BEEN
RAISED ABOUT THE CHOICES YOU
MADE.
WHAT HAVE BEEN THE RESPONSE TO
ALL OF THAT?
>> THE RESPONSE IS THIS IS ART,
A MOVIE.
I'M NOT A HISTORIAN.
I EXPLORE THE IDEAS I HAVE ABOUT
HISTORY AND PUT IT INTO THIS
PROJECT I MADE.
I UNDERSTAND PEOPLE WANTING TO
SEE HISTORY THROUGH THEIR OWN
GAZE, THROUGH THEIR OWN LENS AND
THIS IS THE WAY THAT I SEE IT.
THIS IS THE WAY THAT I INTERPRET
IT.
AND SO, YOU KNOW, I COULD GET
INTO A DEBATE ABOUT THE MINUTIA
OF HISTORY AND INTERPRETATION
BUT I'M NOT A CUSTODIAN OF
ANYONE'S LEGACY.
I'M NOT A LIBRARIAN.
I'M NOT TRYING TO MAINTAIN AN
IMAGE OF ANYONE.
NOT OF KINGOR  JOHNSON OR ANY OF
THE PEOPLE WE CHRONICLE IN THE
FILM.
WE TRY TO INVITE PEOPLE INTO THE
SPIRIT OF THE MOVEMENT.
THAT WAS MY INTENTION AND WHAT
WE'VE DONE.
I LIKE PEOPLE TO SEE IT FOR
THEMSELVES.
>> Ifill: THERE HAD NEVER BEEN
A FEATURE FILM DONE BY MARTIN
LUTHER KING OF WHICH HE WAS THE
CENTRAL FIGURE.
WHY IS THAT AND DO YOU THINK
THAT ANY OF THE BACKLASH YOU'VE
EXPERIENCED IN THE LAST WEEK OR
TWO IS RELATED TO THAT?
>> YEAH.
I MEAN, I THINK PART OF THE
REASON WHY YOU'VE HAD COMPANIES
AND ARTISTS HESITANT TO DIVE IN,
A BUNCH OF REASONS, AND PROPERTY
ISSUES, ISSUES WITH THE SPEECHES
AND THE ESTATE.
IDEAS ABOUT BLACK PROTAGONISTS
NOT BEING AT THE TOP OF THE
STUDIOS TO MAKE.
BUT ALL THE DIFFERENT CAMPS AND
COCONSTITUENCIES AROUND THIS ISE
HAVE MADE IT CHALLENGING FOR
FILMMAKERS TO FOAL LIKE THEY
COULD BE FREE IN TELLING THE
STORY AS THEY SAW IT.
AND THAT'S STRANGLED THE STORY
FOR LONGER THAN IT SHOULD HAVE.
50 YEARS SINCE THE EVENTS WE
CHRONICLED AND NEVER A MAJOR
MOTION PICTURE WITH KING AT THE
CENTER.
>> Ifill: YOU MADE A POINT
ABOUT THE STORIES TOLL AND NOT
TOLD.
ONE TO HAVE THE SURPRISING
THINGS I'VE HEARD IS PEOPLE WHO
SAW THE TITLE WAS SELMA AND
OPRAH WAS AFFILIATED WITH THE
PROJECT THOUGHT THIS WAS A MOVIE
ABOUT A WOMAN NAMED SELMA PLAYED
BY OPRAH.
I AM SURPRISED BY THAT.
>> THAT IS THE TIME THAT WE'RE
IN.
SOME OF THE QUESTIONS THAT I'VE
HEARD, SOME OF THE STATEMENTS
THAT I'VE HEARD AS WE'VE TAKEN
THE FILM ACROSS THE COUNTRY, JAW
DROPPING AT WHAT PEOPLE DON'T
KNOW, YOU KNOW.
SELMA DOES NOT RESONATE WITH
PEOPLE IN THE WAY THAT IT SHOULD
AS BEING A CORNERSTONE FOR
DEMOCRACY IN TERMS OF WHAT IT'S
DONE FOR VOTING RIGHTS AND
EQUALITY.
SOME DON'T EVEN KNOW WHAT THAT
IS IS.
WE OPEN THE FILM WITH THE SCENE
OF FOUR LITTLE GIRLS, THE
BIRMINGHAM BOMBING.
THIS IS A QUINTESSENTIAL,
PIVOTAL POINT OF DEPARTURE FOR
EVERYTHING THAT HAPPENED IN THE
MOVEMENT.
YET I HAVE PEOPLE WALKING UP AND
SAYING, DID THAT REALLY HAPPEN?
I MEAN, SOMEONE SAID TO ME,
DR. KING WASN'T REALLY 39 WHEN
HE DIED, WAS HE?
>> Ifill: YOU HAVE BEEN
NOMINATED FOR GOLDEN GLOBE, BEST
DIRECTOR, FIRST AFRICAN WOMAN
EVER, DAVID OYELOWO THE BEST
ACTOR.
WHY DIDN'T YOU CALL THIS KING
SINCE HE WAS THE CENTRAL FIGURE.
>> SELMA IS NOT KING ONLY.
I FELT ADAMANT THAT IT BE
BROADEN TO INCLUDE THE COMMUNITY
OF PEOPLE WHO CAME TOGETHER TO
MAKE THIS SO.
IT'S NOT A MONOLITH.
THERE WERE ALL KINDS OF IDEAS TO
ACHIEVE THE GOAL.
THAT'S WHAT WE TALK ABOUT IN THE
FILM.
A BUNCH OF DIFFERENT
ORGANIZATIONS, PEOPLE,
PERSONALITIES, HOW TO GET THERE
AND KEEP THEIR EYE ON THE PRIZE
BUT THEY DID AND CAME TOGETHER
AROUND THE VOICE THAT AMPLIFIED
THE MESSAGE.
THAT WAS THE BEAUTY OF KING.
HE WAS A LEADER OF PEOPLE SO YOU
HAVE TO SHOW THE PEOPLE TO
UNDERSTAND THE GREATNESS OF THE
LEADERSHIP AND TO NOT DO THAT IS
MISSING A GREAT OPPORTUNITY.
SO IT'S IMPORTANT TO DECONSTRUCT
OUR HEROS WHETHER KING OR L.B.J.
AND DISTILL THEIR RELATIONSHIP
DOWN TO KEY SCENES.
IT WASN'T ALWAYS SMOOTH.
THESE WERE TWO GREAT MINDS WHO
OFTEN WERE IN A CHESS MATCH.
TO SAY THIS WAS A SKIP IN THE
PARK AND THEY WERE HOLDING HANDS
THE WHOLE WAY IS TO REALLY BE
DISINGENUOUS ABOUT WHAT WAS
HAPPENING AT THAT POINT.
YOU KNOW, WE'RE IN A TIME IN
HISTORY WHERE EVERYTHING WAS ON
FIRE, AND EVERYTHING WAS BEING
QUESTIONED AND THAT'S WHAT'S
WE'RE DOING ON FILM.
>> Ifill: DID YOU LEAVE THE
IMPRESSION JOHNSON WAS MORE
COMPLICIT IN THE THINGS LIKE THE
F.B.I. TRACKING OF KING THAN HE
WAS?
>> COMPLICIT?
I HAVE QUESTIONS ABOUT IT AND
THOSE QUESTIONS I'VE PUT INTO
THE FILM.
THERE'S NEVER A SCENE WHERE WE
SAY VERY CLEARLY THAT JOHNSON
WANTED THE TAPE OR COMMANDED
THAT SOMETHING BE DONE, BUT IT
DOES LEAVE ROOM FOR THE GREY
AREAS, AS I SEE THEM.
SO ALL OF MY QUESTIONS, ALL OF
MY IDEAS, ALL OF MY THOUGHTS
ABOUT THIS TIME IN HISTORY ARE
IN THIS INTERPRETATION OF SELMA.
IT IS ONE VISION OF IT.
IT'S NOT THE ONLY.
IT'S NOT THE ABSOLUTE CORRECT
ONE, IT'S ONE AND IT'S VALID.
ONE OF THE OP-EDS THAT WAS
WRITTEN HAD THE WORDS "THIS FILM
SHOULD BE RULED OUT FOR THE
CHRISTMAS SEASON AND AWARDS
SEASON."
THAT WAS THE LAST LINE OF JOSEPH
CALIFANO'S OP-ED.
I THINK THAT IS DISTURBING.
IT'S AGAINST THE VERY IDEALS OF
WHAT JOHNSON'S LEGACY THAT WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT STOOD FOR, IF
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT EQUALITY, IF
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT VOICE, THEN
LET THIS VOICE BE HEARD.
THE JOHNSON CHARACTER GETS THE
APPLAUSE IN MOST SCREENINGS AT
THE END OF THE FILM WHEN HE
GIVES THE SPEECH.
AUDIENCES GO ON AN EMOTIONAL
JOURNEY WITH HIM.
THEY'RE SEEING A BEGINNING,
MIDDLE, END, A AN ARC IN THE
CHARACTER THAT'S POSITIVE.
I INVITE PEOPLE TO SEE THE MOVIE
AND CHECK IT OUT.
>> Ifill: THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
ONE OF THE CHALLENGES AVA FACED
IS SHE WAS NOT GIVEN RIGHTS TO
LET THE ACTORS USE THE ACTUAL
SPEECHES OF DR. KING BUT
CHANNELED THE WORDS ANYWAY.
YOU CAN WATCH MORE OF MY
CONVERSATION WITH HER ABOUT THAT
ON OUR WEB SITE.
>> Woodruff: WHETHER YOU'RE
FIVE, FIFTEEN OR 50-YEARS-OLD,
ONE OF THE HARDEST THINGS TO
DEAL WITH IN LIFE CAN BE
EXERCISING WILL POWER AND MAKING
A SACRIFICE IN THE SHORT-TERM IN
ORDER TO ACHIEVE SOMETHING OF
GREATER VALUE LATER.
IT IS ONE OF THOSE COMMONLY
ACCEPTED LIFE LESSONS, BUT NOW
IT TURNS OUT THERE ARE MORE
ORGANIZED EFFORTS TO TEACH IT TO
CHILDREN.
OUR ECONOMICS CORRESPONDENT,
PAUL SOLMAN, HAS THE STORY.
PART OF HIS ONGOING REPORTING,
"MAKING SENSE" OF FINANCIAL
NEWS.
>> CLAP ONCE.
CLAP TWICE.
PUT UP YOUR RIGHT HAND.
PUT UP YOUR LEFT HAND.
>> Reporter: THIS IS THE KIPP
PUT UP YOUR RIGHT HAND.
INFINITY MIDDLE SCHOOL IN NEW
>> Reporter: THIS IS THE KIPP
YORK CITY'S HARLEM, WHERE, IN
INFINITY MIDDLE SCHOOL IN NEW
ADDITION TO THE THREE "R'S,"
YORK CITY'S HARLEM, WHERE, IN
THESE PREDOMINANTLY POOR FIFTH
ADDITION TO THE THREE "R'S,"
GRADERS STUDY CHARACTER TO
THESE PREDOMINANTLY POOR FIFTH
MAXIMIZE SUCCESS IN LATER LIFE:
GRADERS STUDY CHARACTER TO
QUALITIES LIKE GRIT AND
MAXIMIZE SUCCESS IN LATER LIFE:
GRATITUDE.
QUALITIES LIKE GRIT AND
OPTIMISM AND CURIOSITY.
GRATITUDE.
ZEST AND SOCIAL INTELLIGENCE.
OPTIMISM AND CURIOSITY.
AND ONE SKILL ABOVE ALL.
ZEST AND SOCIAL INTELLIGENCE.
>> WHAT IS THIS TALKING ABOUT,
AND ONE SKILL ABOVE ALL.
DON'T EAT THE MARSHMALLOW?
>> WHAT IS THIS TALKING ABOUT,
BRITHANY IN THE BACK.
DON'T EAT THE MARSHMALLOW?
>> SELF CONTROL.
BRITHANY IN THE BACK.
>> OK, SO WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
>> SELF CONTROL.
SELF CONTROL.
>> OK, SO WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
>> Reporter: IN FACT, THEY'VE
SELF CONTROL.
BEEN TALKING ABOUT SELF CONTROL
>> Reporter: IN FACT, THEY'VE
SINCE THE FIRST DAY OF SCHOOL,
BEEN TALKING ABOUT SELF CONTROL
WHEN TEACHER LEYLA BRAVO-WILLEY
SINCE THE FIRST DAY OF SCHOOL,
GAVE ALL OF HER STUDENTS THE
WHEN TEACHER LEYLA BRAVO-WILLEY
MARSHMALLOW TEST.
GAVE ALL OF HER STUDENTS THE
>> THEY COME IN, THEY HAVE A
MARSHMALLOW TEST.
MARSHMALLOW IN FRONT OF THEM AND
>> THEY COME IN, THEY HAVE A
THEY'RE LOOKING AROUND LIKE:
MARSHMALLOW IN FRONT OF THEM AND
WHAT?
THEY'RE LOOKING AROUND LIKE:
WHAT IS THIS?
WHAT?
>> Reporter: THIS IS AMONG THE
WHAT IS THIS?
MOST FAMOUS EXPERIMENTS IN THE
>> Reporter: THIS IS AMONG THE
HISTORY OF PSYCHOLOGY WITH
MOST FAMOUS EXPERIMENTS IN THE
IMPLICATIONS FOR ECONOMICS.
HISTORY OF PSYCHOLOGY WITH
>> IN WHICH A GROUP OF FOUR-
IMPLICATIONS FOR ECONOMICS.
YEAR-OLDS WERE GIVEN ONE
>> IN WHICH A GROUP OF FOUR-
MARSHMALLOW AND TOLD THAT IF
YEAR-OLDS WERE GIVEN ONE
THEY COULD WAIT TO EAT THE
MARSHMALLOW AND TOLD THAT IF
MARSHMALLOW AFTER BEING LEFT
THEY COULD WAIT TO EAT THE
ALONE WITH IT FOR A WHILE, THEN
MARSHMALLOW AFTER BEING LEFT
THEY WOULD BE GIVEN AN EXTRA
ALONE WITH IT FOR A WHILE, THEN
MARSHMALLOW TO EAT.
THEY WOULD BE GIVEN AN EXTRA
MOST EAT THE MARSHMALLOW AS SOON
MARSHMALLOW TO EAT.
AS THEY ARE LEFT ALONE WITH IT.
MOST EAT THE MARSHMALLOW AS SOON
BUT SOME OTHER CHILDREN ARE ABLE
AS THEY ARE LEFT ALONE WITH IT.
TO RESIST TEMPTATION.
BUT SOME OTHER CHILDREN ARE ABLE
>> Reporter: ABOUT ONE IN EVERY
TO RESIST TEMPTATION.
THREE IS ABLE TO HOLD OFF.
>> Reporter: ABOUT ONE IN EVERY
AND YOUTUBE IS REPLETE WITH
THREE IS ABLE TO HOLD OFF.
VIDEOS OF KIDS STRUGGLING TO NOT
AND YOUTUBE IS REPLETE WITH
EAT THE MARSHMALLOWS.
VIDEOS OF KIDS STRUGGLING TO NOT
SO WHAT'S THE BIG DEAL ABOUT
EAT THE MARSHMALLOWS.
SELF CONTROL?
SO WHAT'S THE BIG DEAL ABOUT
>> THE BIG DEAL ABOUT SELF
SELF CONTROL?
CONTROL IS IF YOU HAVE IT, YOU
>> THE BIG DEAL ABOUT SELF
ARE ABLE TO ACTUALLY PAY
CONTROL IS IF YOU HAVE IT, YOU
ATTENTION TO THE TEACHER AND TO
ARE ABLE TO ACTUALLY PAY
LEARN.
ATTENTION TO THE TEACHER AND TO
>> Reporter: PSYCHOLOGIST WALTER
LEARN.
MISCHEL DEVISED THE MARSHMALLOW
>> Reporter: PSYCHOLOGIST WALTER
TEST 50 YEARS AGO, RUNNING IT ON
MISCHEL DEVISED THE MARSHMALLOW
HUNDREDS OF PRESCHOOLERS AT
TEST 50 YEARS AGO, RUNNING IT ON
STANFORD UNIVERSITY.
HUNDREDS OF PRESCHOOLERS AT
12 YEARS LATER, HE FOUND
STANFORD UNIVERSITY.
SIGNIFICANT DIFFERENCES BETWEEN
12 YEARS LATER, HE FOUND
THOSE WHO HAD WOLFED DOWN THE
SIGNIFICANT DIFFERENCES BETWEEN
MARSHMALLOW.
THOSE WHO HAD WOLFED DOWN THE
THEY WERE NOW FOUND TO BE MORE
MARSHMALLOW.
EASILY FRUSTRATED, INDECISIVE,
THEY WERE NOW FOUND TO BE MORE
DISORGANIZED.
EASILY FRUSTRATED, INDECISIVE,
AND THOSE WHO, AS TOTS, HAD BEEN
DISORGANIZED.
ABLE TO CONTROL THEMSELVES.
AND THOSE WHO, AS TOTS, HAD BEEN
THEY WERE NOW MORE CONFIDENT,
ABLE TO CONTROL THEMSELVES.
SELF-RELIANT AND, GET THIS,
THEY WERE NOW MORE CONFIDENT,
SCORED ABOUT 200 POINTS HIGHER
SELF-RELIANT AND, GET THIS,
ON THE S.A.T.
SCORED ABOUT 200 POINTS HIGHER
THE POWERFUL ECONOMIC MESSAGE IS
ON THE S.A.T.
THAT IF YOU DO EXHIBIT SELF-
THE POWERFUL ECONOMIC MESSAGE IS
CONTROL AT AN EARLY AGE, SAYS
THAT IF YOU DO EXHIBIT SELF-
MISCHEL.
CONTROL AT AN EARLY AGE, SAYS
>> YOU'VE GOT A MUCH BETTER
MISCHEL.
CHANCE OF TAKING THE FUTURE INTO
>> YOU'VE GOT A MUCH BETTER
ACCOUNT AND LIKELY TO HAVE
CHANCE OF TAKING THE FUTURE INTO
BETTER ECONOMIC OUTCOMES.
ACCOUNT AND LIKELY TO HAVE
BUT THE IDEA THAT YOUR CHILD IS
BETTER ECONOMIC OUTCOMES.
DOOMED IF SHE CHOOSES NOT TO
BUT THE IDEA THAT YOUR CHILD IS
WAIT FOR HER MARSHMALLOW IS
DOOMED IF SHE CHOOSES NOT TO
REALLY JUST A SERIOUS
WAIT FOR HER MARSHMALLOW IS
SINTMIERPRETATION.
REALLY JUST A SERIOUS
>> Reporter: BECAUSE THE REAL
SINTMIERPRETATION.
MESSAGE OF HIS WORK IS THAT SELF
>> Reporter: BECAUSE THE REAL
CONTROL CAN BE TAUGHT, SAYS
MESSAGE OF HIS WORK IS THAT SELF
MISEL, CHTO EVEN THE MOST OUT-
CONTROL CAN BE TAUGHT, SAYS
OF-CONTROL AMONG US.
MISEL, CHTO EVEN THE MOST OUT-
>> ME GET THIS FEELING WHEN ME
OF-CONTROL AMONG US.
SEE THE COOKIE ON THE PLATE
>> ME GET THIS FEELING WHEN ME
ME WANT TO GRAB IT, WANT TO EAT
SEE THE COOKIE ON THE PLATE
IT, OH ME NO CAN WAIT.
ME WANT TO GRAB IT, WANT TO EAT
>> Reporter: COOKIE MONSTER'S
IT, OH ME NO CAN WAIT.
PROVERBIAL PROBLEMS HAVE BEEN
>> Reporter: COOKIE MONSTER'S
MADE QUITE GRAPHIC IN RECENT
PROVERBIAL PROBLEMS HAVE BEEN
YEARS BY IMAGING STUDIES OF WHAT
MADE QUITE GRAPHIC IN RECENT
MISCHEL CALLS THE BRAIN'S HOT
YEARS BY IMAGING STUDIES OF WHAT
AND COLD SYSTEMS.
MISCHEL CALLS THE BRAIN'S HOT
>> THE HOT SYSTEM IS THE LIMBIC
AND COLD SYSTEMS.
SYSTEM IN THBRAIE N AND IT IS
>> THE HOT SYSTEM IS THE LIMBIC
REFLEXIVE, IMMEDIATE, EMOTIONAL.
SYSTEM IN THBRAIE N AND IT IS
SO IN ORDER TO SLOW THAT HOT
REFLEXIVE, IMMEDIATE, EMOTIONAL.
SYSTEM YOU HAVE TO ACTIVATE THE
SO IN ORDER TO SLOW THAT HOT
COOL SYSTEM, THE PREFRONTAL
SYSTEM YOU HAVE TO ACTIVATE THE
CORTEX.
COOL SYSTEM, THE PREFRONTAL
THE PROBLEM IS THAT THE HOT
CORTEX.
SYSTEM GOES UP WHEN STRESS GOES
THE PROBLEM IS THAT THE HOT
UP AND WHEN PEOPLE ARE LIVING
SYSTEM GOES UP WHEN STRESS GOES
UNDER CONDITIONS OF TOXIC
UP AND WHEN PEOPLE ARE LIVING
POVERTY, THOSE ARE CONDITIONS
UNDER CONDITIONS OF TOXIC
THAT CREATE HUGE STRESS LEVELS
POVERTY, THOSE ARE CONDITIONS
AND THEY MAKE THE HOT SYSTEM
THAT CREATE HUGE STRESS LEVELS
KEEP GETTING HOT.
AND THEY MAKE THE HOT SYSTEM
>> Reporter: SO, THE EAIERRL
KEEP GETTING HOT.
SELF CONTROL IS TAUGHT, THE
>> Reporter: SO, THE EAIERRL
BETTER.
SELF CONTROL IS TAUGHT, THE
WHICH IS WHY
BETTER.
WITH SESAME STREET WORKSHOP...
WHICH IS WHY
>> ME WANT IT.
WITH SESAME STREET WORKSHOP...
BUT ME WAIT.
>> ME WANT IT.
>> Reporter: ON A SERIES OF
BUT ME WAIT.
VIDEOS STARRING THEIR GURU OF
>> Reporter: ON A SERIES OF
GLUTTONY, TO TEACH TOTS HOW TO
VIDEOS STARRING THEIR GURU OF
DELAY GRATIFICATION.
GLUTTONY, TO TEACH TOTS HOW TO
>> ME CAN TALK TO SELF, ME CAN
DELAY GRATIFICATION.
STAND UP STRAIGHT, ME CAN TAKE
>> ME CAN TALK TO SELF, ME CAN
DEEP BREATH, ME CAN SELF
STAND UP STRAIGHT, ME CAN TAKE
REGULATE!
DEEP BREATH, ME CAN SELF
ME WAIT.
REGULATE!
>> Reporter: BUT IT'S NEVER TOO
ME WAIT.
LATE TO SELF-REGULATE, MISCHEL
>> Reporter: BUT IT'S NEVER TOO
THINKS.
LATE TO SELF-REGULATE, MISCHEL
AND SO IN THE PAST FEW YEARS,
THINKS.
HIS IDEAS HAVE INSPIRED SCHOOLS
AND SO IN THE PAST FEW YEARS,
LIKE KIPP, A NATIONWIDE CHAIN OF
HIS IDEAS HAVE INSPIRED SCHOOLS
PUBLIC CHARTER SCHOOLS, SERVING
LIKE KIPP, A NATIONWIDE CHAIN OF
LOW-INCOME STUDENTS, PUSHING
PUBLIC CHARTER SCHOOLS, SERVING
HIGH ACADEMIC ACHIEVEMENT.
LOW-INCOME STUDENTS, PUSHING
>> THIS TIME WE'RE GOING TO TRY
HIGH ACADEMIC ACHIEVEMENT.
TO MAKE A GOAL THAT'S VERY FAR
>> THIS TIME WE'RE GOING TO TRY
AWAY.
TO MAKE A GOAL THAT'S VERY FAR
RIGHT?
AWAY.
WE'RE GOING TO TRY TO MAKE A
RIGHT?
GOAL AROUND YOUR REPORT CARD.
WE'RE GOING TO TRY TO MAKE A
>> Reporter: OF COURSE, OLDER
GOAL AROUND YOUR REPORT CARD.
KIDS HAVE SELF-CONTROL ISSUES
>> Reporter: OF COURSE, OLDER
BEYOND COOKIES AND MARSHMALLOWS.
KIDS HAVE SELF-CONTROL ISSUES
>> YOU ARE GOING TO COME UP WITH
BEYOND COOKIES AND MARSHMALLOWS.
EVERYTHING THAT COULD POSSIBLY
>> YOU ARE GOING TO COME UP WITH
GO WRONG.
EVERYTHING THAT COULD POSSIBLY
>> JOSHUA?
GO WRONG.
>> TALKING TO MY PARTNER.
>> JOSHUA?
>> BUT YOU HAVE TO MEET YOUR
>> TALKING TO MY PARTNER.
GOAL.
>> BUT YOU HAVE TO MEET YOUR
WHAT ARE YOU GOING TO DO?
GOAL.
>> I'M GONNA PRETEND LIKE
WHAT ARE YOU GOING TO DO?
THEY'RE INVISIBLE AND I CAN'T
>> I'M GONNA PRETEND LIKE
SEE THEM.
THEY'RE INVISIBLE AND I CAN'T
>> USE YOUR IMAGINATION, I LOVE
SEE THEM.
IT!
>> USE YOUR IMAGINATION, I LOVE
BRENDALY, CAN YOU SHARE WHAT
IT!
YOUR IF-THEN PLAN IS?
>> THAT MY FAMILY WILL BE VERY
DISTRACTING AND I WON'T BE ABLE
TO READ THAT MUCH AND IT WILL
AFFECT MY GRADE.
>> SO IF YOUR FAMILY IS SUPER
DISTRACTING WHAT ARE YOU GOING
TO DO?
>> I WILL GO TO MY ROOM AND
CLOSE THE DOOR AND PUT SOME
HEADPHONES ON, AND THEN START
READING.
>> GIVE HER THREE SNAPS.
>> Reporter: BOTH BRENDALY AND
JOSHUA, IT TURNS OUT, ATE THEIR
MARSHMALLOWS THE FIRST DAY OF
SCHOOL.
BUT BOTH HAVE COME A LONG WAY
SINCE.
>> FOR SELF CONTROL, I JUST
PRETEND IT'S A ROCK, LIKE A
POISONOUS ROCK AND JUST...
>> Reporter: A POISONOUS ROCK!
>> YES.
>> Reporter: WHAT DOES A
POISONOUS ROCK LOOK LIKE?
>> IT'S LIKE A WHITE ROCK WITH
MOLD ALL OVER IT.
>> WHEN I COME TO KIPP I
REALIZED IF I WAIT I GET A
BIGGER TREAT.
>> Reporter: AND HIS SELF
CONTROL STRATEGY ALSO WORKS ON
ANOTHER PROBLEM: HIS TEMPER.
ARE YOU EASILY ANNOYED?
>> YES.
>> Reporter: DID YOU LEARN HERE
HOW TO CONTROL YOUR ANNOYANCE?
>> YES.
I WOULD JUST TAKE A DEEP BREATH
AND JUST LET IT GO.
>> Reporter: DID YOU ACTUALLY
TAKE A DEEP BREATH?
>> YEAH, BUT SOMETIMES WHEN I'M
LIKE REALLY MAD I TAKE TWO DEEP
BREATHS.
( LAUGHTER )
>> Reporter: HAVE YOU EVER
GOTTEN SO MAD YOU NEEDED TO TAKE
THREE?
>> YES.
>> Reporter: YES?
WHAT'S THE MOST DEEP BREATHS YOU
EVER TAKEN?
>> I'VE TAKEN FIVE DEEP BREATHS.
>> WHEN KIDS GET TO BE TEN,
ELEVEN, TWELVE YEARS OLD, THEIR
TEMPTATIONS BEGIN TO BE SOME OF
THEIR OWN FEELINGS.
FOR EXAMPLE, THE FEELING OF
ANGER, THE RISING OF ONE'S OWN
TEMPER, THE READINESS TO HURT
SOMEONE ELSE BECAUSE THEY HAVE
TEASED YOU OR PROVOKED YOU OR
MADE YOU FEEL BAD.
>> Reporter: AND SO THAT'S WHY
THE KIPP SCHOOLS ARE TEACHING
KIDS AS EARLY AS POSSIBLE.
>> EXACTLY.
THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN GOOD
BEHAVIOR, GOOD CONSEQUENCES, BAD
BEHAVIOR, BAD CONSEQUENCES.
>> Reporter: MOST KIPP STUDENTS
ARE CHOSEN BY LOTTERY,
REGARDLESS OF PRIOR ACADEMIC
RECORD.
ALMOST ALL MEET FEDERAL POVERTY
GUIDELINES.
AND YET 82% GO ON TO COLLEGE,
AND NEARLY HALF COMPLETE A FOUR-
YEAR DEGREE, FIVE TIMES THE RATE
OF THE AVERAGE LOW INCOME
STUDENT.
WHAT'S HAPPENING TO THE KIDS YOU
GREW UP WITH WHO NEVER WENT TO A
KIPP SCHOOL?
>> THEY'RE NOT IN SCHOOL, THEY
PROBABLY HAVE THEIR OWN KIDS AT
THIS POINT.
THEY'RE LIVING A VERY HARD LIFE.
>> Reporter: EVEN AMONG
SUCCESSFUL KIPP ALUMNI, GEORGE
RAMIREZ STANDS OUT.
BORN AND RAISED IN THE SOUTH
BRONX, A MEDIOCRE STUDENT PRE-
KIPP, RAMIREZ IS NOW A SENIOR AT
YALE, MAJORING IN HISTORY AND
PHYSICS.
>> I THINK ONE THING THAT I
LEARNED AT KIPP REALLY WELL IS
THAT A LOT OF YOUR EFFORT
DOESN'T REAP ANY SUCCESS UNTIL
WAY LATER IN THE FUTURE.
THERE'S ANOTHER MARSHMALLOW IF
YOU WAIT JUST A LITTLE BIT
LONGER.
>> Reporter: KIPP ISN'T THE ONLY
PATH OUT  POVOFERTY, OF COURSE.
TEACHER LEYLA BRAVO-WILLEY ALSO
GREW UP POOR, LONG BEFORE KIPP
BEGAN, YET SHE GRADUATED FROM
HARVARD.
BUT SHE TEACHES SELF-CONTROL
THESE DAYS, SHARING HER OWN
ADULT ECONOMIC STRUGGLES WITH
HER STUDENTS.
>> YOU KNOW THAT MISS BRAVO HAS
SOME ISSUES WITH SHOPPING.
I LIKE TO SHOP AND I'M TRYING TO
SAVE MONEY.
SO IF, FOR INSTANCE, I COME
ACROSS A STORE I LIKE A LOT,
THEN I WILL PRETEND THAT STORE
HAS BED BUGS, YEAH THEN I DON'T
GO IN.
>> Reporter: NOW, DO YOU REALLY
VISUALIZE BED BUGS IN A STORE
THAT ATTRACTS YOU OR THAT'S JUST
PLAYING FOR THE KIDS?
>> NO, ACTUALLY, I REALLY
ACTUALLY DO.
WHATEVER YOUR MARSHMALLOW TEST
IS, THERE ARE ALWAYS STRATEGIES
THAT CAN HELP YOU.
AND WE WANT TO ARM OUR KIDS WITH
ALL THE TOOLS POSSIBLE TO BE
SUCCESSFUL IN LIFE.
>> Reporter: TOOLS THAT EVEN THE
MOST RECALCITRANT CAN APPARENTLY
LEARN.
>> BUT ME WAIT!
>> Reporter: PAUL SOLMAN IN NEW
YORK, AND REASONABLY SELF-
CONTROLLED, FOR THE PBS
NEWSHOUR.
>> Ifill: WE CLOSE TONIGHT WITH
OTHER FUNDAMENTAL QUESTIONS
BEING ASKED IN THE WAKE OF THE
PARIS ATTACKS ABOUT THE CARTOONS
THEMSELVES.
WHERE COULD OR EVEN SHOULD BE
DRAWN WHEN IT COMES TO FREEDOM
OF EXPRESSION?
JEFFREY BROWN TAKES IT FROM
THERE.
>> Brown: ONE RESPONSE TO THE
MASS KILLING IN PARIS YESTERDAY:
AT VIGILS AROUND THE WORLD,
PENS WERE HELD HIGH TO SHOW
SOLIDARITY WITH THE SLAIN
CARTOONISTS AND JOURNALISTS WHO
USED THEM IN THEIR POLITICAL
SATIRE.
>> OUR HEARTS GO OUT TO THE
STAFF OF "CHARLIE HEBDO."
>> Brown: ONE OF THIS COUNTRY'S
LEADING SATIRISTS, JON STEWART,
WAS VISIBLY UPSET ON HIS "DAILY
SHOW" PROGRAM LAST NIGHT, SAID,
PEOPLE WHO PROVOKE DEBATE
THROUGH SATIRE MUST KEEP DOING
IT.
>> I KNOW VERY FEW PEOPLE GO
INTO COMEDY AS AN ACT OF
COURAGE.
MAINLY BECAUSE IT SHOULD HAVE TO
BE AN ACT OF COURAGE AND THEY
WERE KILLED FOR THEIR CARTOONS
THIS TYPE OF CIVILIZATION
CLARIFIES THAT REALITY.
OUR JOB IS NOT TO MAKE SENSE OF
THIS BECAUSE THERE'S NO SENSE TO
BE MADE OF IT.
>> Brown: THE CARTOONS IN THE
MAGAZINES ARE HIGHLY
CONTROVERSIAL AND PROVOCATIVE.
MANY NEWS ORGANIZATIONS,
INCLUDING THE NEWSHOUR, HAVE
DECIDED NOT TO SHOW THESE
IMAGES.
THEY COME OUT OF A LONG HISTORY
OF CARTOON SATIRE, ESPECIALLY
VIBRANT IN EUROPE, INCLUDING THE
LIKES OF FRENCH ARTIST HONORE
DAUMIER IN THE 19TH CENTURY.
TEN YEARS AGO, A DANISH
NEWSPAPER PUBLISHED CARTOONS OF
MUHAMMAD THAT SPARKED A WAVE OF
PROTESTS ACROSS THE MUSLIM WORLD
IN WHICH AT LEAST 50 PEOPLE
DIED.
TODAY, SOCIAL MEDIA BRIMMED WITH
DEBATE ON THE VALUE OF SUCH
SATIRE, AND CONDEMNATION OF THE
KILLINGS, WITH ONE WAY OF
HONORING THE SLAIN CARTOONISTS:
THROUGH THE CREATION AND
PUBLICATION OF NEW CARTOONS.
>> Brown: ONE VOICE RAISED TODAY
WAS THAT OF TED RALL, WHO WROTE
AN ESSAY IN "THE LOS ANGELES
TIMES," WHERE HE'S AN EDITORIAL
CARTOONIST.
HE JOINS US FROM NEW YORK.
AND HERE WITH ME IS ANOTHER
PROMINENT POLITICAL CARTOONIST,
TOM TOLES OF "THE WASHINGTON
POST."
TED RALL, YOU HAD A PERSONAL
CONNECTION TO THE PEOPLE AT
"CHARLIE HEBDO."
HOW DID THEY SEE THEIR WORK?
WHAT THEY WERE DOING?
>> WELL, THEY WERE VERY
HARD-HITTING, AGGRESSIVE GROUP
OF CARTOONISTS.
I HAD THE PLEASURE OF MEETING
THEM AT AN ANNUAL CARTOON
CONVENTION IN FRANCE, THE
BIGGEST CON FAB OF CARTOONIST
AND FANS THAT TAKES PLACE EVERY
YEAR.
THEY SOUGHT ME OUT.
WE WENT OUT FOR DRINKS AND
DINNER AND IT WAS VERY CLEAR
THEY WERE A VERY HAPPY BUNCH OF
CARTOONISTS.
THESE WERE GUYS WHO WEREN'T JUST
TRYING TO PUSH THE ENVELOPE,
THEY WERE ENCOURAGED BY THEIR
EDITOR TO BE AS AGGRESSIVE AS
POSSIBLE.
IT'S A BEING DIFFERENCE BETWEEN
THE WAY THINGS ARE DONE IN THE
UNITED STATES WHERE OFTEN
EDITORS ARE TRYING TO REIN IN
THE CARTOONISTS.
THERE THEY WERE ENCOURAGED TO
STRETCH AND BE AS AGGRESSIVE AS
POSSIBLE.
>> Brown: TOM TOLES, I WANT TO
PUT UP A CARTOON YOU DID IN
RESPONSE AND WAS PUBLISHED IN
TODAY'S PAPER.
TELL US ABOUT, AS WE LOOK AT
THAT, WHAT IS THE VALUE OF THIS
KIND OF WORK AS YOU SEE IT?
>> WELL, THE ATTACK WAS SHOCKING
AND OUTRAGEOUS.
IT WAS A DIRECT, BLOODY, MERED
ROUSE ATTACK ON -- MURDEROUS
ATTACK ON FREE SPEECH, OF
CARTOONISTS, IN GENERAL, AND YOU
WANT TO PUSH BACK ON THAT AND
SAY SOMETHING THAT REINFORCES
THE IDEA OF FREEDOM OF
EXPRESSION.
THE  IMAGERY I CHOSE WAS AN
AUTOMATIC WEAPON AND A PEN, TO
PUT THE TWO SIDE BY SIDE TO GIVE
PEOPLE A CHANCE TO THINK ABOUT
IT, IN THE CONTEXT OF THE
HISTORIC IDEA THAT THE PEN IS
MIGHTIER THAN THE SWORD.
BUT IN THE SHORT TERM, THE PEN
ISN'T ALWAYS MIGHTIER.
I MEAN, CARTOONISTS WERE
MURDERED AND THEIR WORK WAS
ASSAULTED, AND ON THAT DAY IT
WAS A REAL CHALLENGE.
>> Brown: TED RALL, IF PEOPLE
SAY, OKAY, MAYBE YOU HAVE THE
RIGHT TO DO THIS, YOU HAVE THE
RIGHT TO INSULT OR PROVOKE, BUT
WHY DO IT?
WHY DELIBERATELY DO IT,
ESPECIALLY IF IT GOES TO SOME
CORE BELIEFS OF PEOPLE?
>> WELL, IT'S NOT THE JOB OF A
CARTOONIST TO BE CONCERNED ABOUT
OFFENDING PEOPLE OR NOT
OFFENDING PEOPLE.
SPEAKING FOR MYSELF AND I THINK
MANY OF MY PEERS, THE INTENTION
IS TO NOT MAKE PEOPLE ANGRY OR
MAKE THEM REBEL OR -- MAKE THEM
FURIOUS ABOUT AN ATTACK ON HAIR
RELIGIOUS FAITH OR POLITICAL
BELIEFS, BUT THE IDEA IS TO TELL
THINGS AS THEY ARE AND CALL THE
SHOTS AS YOU SEE THEM.
HONESTY IS WHAT'S IMPORTANT AND
I THINK THE JOB OF EDITORS IS TO
REIN IN A CARTOONIST WHEN HE OR
SHE THINKS THEY MAY HAVE GONE
TOO FAR.
BUT THE CARTOONIST NEEDS TO NOT
SELF-CENSOR OR WITHHOLD THEIR
PUNCHES.
WE NEED TO EXPRESS OURSELVES
FREELY.
FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION DOESN'T
MEAN ANYTHING IF WE DON'T
EXPLORE THE LIMITS OF IT FROM
TIME TO TIME.
>> Brown: TOM TOLES, WHERE DO
YOU DRAW THE LINES?
DO YOU DRAW PERSONAL LINES, IN
THIS COUNTRY TO DO SATIRES OF
FIGURES OR ETHNIC GROPES?
>> I THINK ABOUT THESE SUBJECTS
VERY SERIOUSLY.
I DO HAVE PERSONAL LINES THAT I
THINK, FOR REASONS OF LARGER
CONCERNS THAT I DON'T GO PAST.
BUT I JUST WANT TO EMPHASIZE
THAT, ON A DAY LIKE TODAY,
THAT'S A DISCUSSION FOR ANOTHER
TIME BECAUSE WHAT IS AT STAKE
NOW IS NOT WHAT I DECIDE TO DO,
IT'S THE RIGHT OF ANY CARTOONIST
TO EXERCISE THE FULL EXTENT OF
FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION.
WHETHER I DECIDE TO DRAW THE
LINE WHERE HE DOES, TODAY IT
DOESN'T MATTER.
TODAY WE DEFEND THE IDEA OF
FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION.
THAT'S WHAT WAS ATTACKED AND
THAT'S THE KEY ISSUE TO THAT.
YES, THERE ARE ALL KINDS OF
DISCUSSIONS YOU CAN HAVE ABOUT
WHAT'S THE SMARTEST THING.
I CERTAINLY AGREE WITH TED THE
GOAL IS HONESTY.
THAT'S THE CORE THING, BUT THE
CONTEXT WE'RE WORKING IN HAS TO
HAVE A PERIMETER OF FREEDOM OF
EXPRESSION THAT IS A VERY BROAD
PERIMETER.
>> Brown: TED, I WANT TO SHOW
A CARTOON YOU DID IN RESPONSE
AND GOES TO A POINT YOU WERE
MAKING A LITTLE EARLIER THAT
THIS KIND OF POLITICAL
EXPRESSION IS LARGELY LOST OR
MUCH LESS IN THIS COUNTRY.
>> YES.
WHEN I STARTED DOING THIS IN THE
EARLY 1990s PROFESSIONALLY,
THERE WERE HUNDREDS OF FULL-TIME
STAFF EDITORIAL CARTOONISTS
THROUGHOUT THE UNITED STATES.
THESE DAYS THERE'S BARELY 30, IF
EVEN THAT MANY.
TODAY THE STAFF FEDERAL
CARTOONISTS IN FORT LAUDERDALE
WHO IS LAID OFF TODAY.
NICE TIMING, GUYS.
THIS HAS BEEN A BLOOD BATH,
REALLY, IN OUR PROFESSION.
THERE'S NOT A SINGLE MAGAZINE IN
THE UNITED STATES THAT EMPLOYS A
SINGLE CARTOONIST FULL TIME ON
STAFF.
THERE'S ONLY ONE WEB SITE IN THE
UNITED STATES THAT EMPLOYS A
SINGLE POLITICAL CARTOONIST ON
STAFF.
THE PROFESSION HAS PRETTY MUCH
ALMOST CEASED TO EXIST IN THE
UNITED STATES.
YOU KNOW, MORE PEOPLE WERE
KILLED IN PARIS, MORE
CARTOONISTS WERE KILLED IN PARIS
YESTERDAY THAN WORK IN THE
STATES OF CALIFORNIA, NEW YORK
AND TEXAS COMBINED.
SO NO DOUBT THE THREAT OF
VIOLENCE AS WE SAW IN PARIS
YESTERDAY IS VERY REAL AND
HORRIFYING, BUT THERE'S ALSO AN
EXISTENTIAL THREAT TO THE
PROFESSION JUST FROM BUDGET CUTS
AND THE TRANSFORMATION OF MEDIA
IN THE DIGITAL AGE.
>> Brown: ALL RIGHT, TED RALL
AND TOM TOLES, THANK YOU BOTH
VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY, FRENCH
POLICE INTENSIFIED THE MANHUNT
FOR E GUTHNMEN WHO KILLED 12
PEOPLE AT A PARIS PUBLICATION
THAT SATIRIZED ISLAM.
IT WAS WIDELY REPORTED THAT ONE
TRAINED BRIEFLY WITH AL QUAIDA
IN YEMEN.
PRESIDENT OBAMA VISITED THE
FRENCH EMBASSY IN WASHINGTON
THIS EVENING TO OFFER HIS
CONDOLENCES.
AND THE U.S. OLYMPIC COMMITTEE
CHOSE BOSTON AS ITS CANDIDATE TO
BID FOR THE 2024 SUM OR LINKS.
>> Woodruff: ON THE NEWSHOUR
ONLINE RIGHT NOW, FROM SATELLITE
DISHES MADE FROM LUNCH TRAYS, TO
A BOAT MADE FROM A '51 CHEVY,
CUBANS MAKE DO WITH WHAT'S
AVAILABLE.
SO WE TAKE A LOOK AT HOW A
GENERATION OF D.I.Y. ENGINEERS
IN CUBA HAS SPRUNG FROM DECADES
OF ISOLATION.
YOU CAN FIND THAT, PLUS A PHOTO
GALLERY, ON OUR HOME PAGE.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, pbs.org/newshour.
>> Ifill: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
ON FRIDAY, WE'LL FEATURE A
SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE REPORT
FROM THE SCRIPPS WASHINGTON
BUREAU, ON WHAT HAPPENS AFTER
CONVICTED SEXUAL OFFENDERS ARE
DISCHARGED FROM THE ARMED
SERVICES.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
WE'LL SEE YOU ON-LINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING WITH MARK
SHIELDS AND DAVID BROOK FORS,
ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.